=pod

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This subclass of GuildWars2::API::Objects defines the Color and Color::Material
objects.


=head1 CLASSES

=head2 Color

The Color object represents a color definition in Guild Wars 2. It is returned
by the C<$api->get_colors()> method.

=head3 Attributes

=over

=item name

The color's name.

=item base_rgb
=item base_rgb_hex

The base RGB color for the color's transformations. Calling C<base_rgb> returns
the color as an array of integers normalized to 255; calling C<base_rgb_hex>
returns it as a hexadecimal string.

=item cloth
=item leather
=item metal

GuildWars2::API::Objects::Color::Material objects containing the detailed
information for the color transformations on each material.

=back


=head2 Color::Material

The Color::Material subobject represents the color transformation parameters for a specific material.

=head3 Attributes

=over

=item brightness
=item contrast
=item hue
=item saturation
=item lightness

The components of the color transformation. Brightness and hue are integers, the
others are floating-point numbers.

=item * rgb
=item * rgb_hex

The pre-computed final RGB value of the color on this material from applying the
color transformation to the color's base_rgb value. Calling C<rgb> returns the
color as an array of integers normalized to 255; calling C<rgb_hex> returns it
as a hexadecimal string.

=item * transform

The computed transformation matrix for this material. Not defined until the
C<generate_transform()> method is called on the material. Utilized by calling
the C<apply_transform($rgb)> method on an RGB value.

=back

=head3 Methods

=over

=item $material->generate_transform()

Generates the transform matrix for the material and stores it in the
C<transform> attribute.

=item $material->apply_transform( $rgb )

Applies the computed C<transform> matrix to the given RGB value. Will generate
the C<transform> matrix if it is undefined. Returns a
GuildWars2::API::Objects::Color::RGB object.

=back


=head2 Color::RGB

The Color::RGB subobject is the output of the Color::Material::apply_transform()
method and is a representation of an RGB color, using integers normalized to
255.

=head3 Attributes

=over

=item red
=item green
=item blue

The red, green, and blue component values of the color.

=back

=head3 Methods

=over

=item as_array()

Returns the red, green, and blue component values in an array.

=item as_hex()

Returns the RGB value as a hex string.

=back

=cut
