=pod

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This subclass of GuildWars2::API::Objects defines the Recipe object.


=head1 CLASSES

=head2 Recipe

The Recipe object represents a crafting recipe in Guild Wars 2. It is returned
by the $api->get_recipe() method.

=head3 Attributes

=over

=item recipe_id

The internal ID for the recipe.

=item ingredients

The ingredients required for the recipe, given as a hash with the item IDs as
the keys and the requried quantity of each as the values. Maximum of 4 entries.

=item output_item_id

The internal ID of the item that the recipe produces.

=item output_item_count

The quantity of the output item that is produced.

=item min_rating

The minimum rating required in one of the associated disciplines to craft the
recipe.

=item armorsmith
=item artificer
=item chef
=item huntsman
=item jeweler
=item leatherworker
=item tailor
=item weaponsmith

Booleans that indicate which crafting disciplines can craft the recipe.

=item disciplines

Returns all 8 discipline booleans as a hash, keyed on discipline name.

=item recipe_type

The recipe type - in-game this is the category it gets listed under in the
crafting screen.

=item unlock_method

The method by which the recipe is learned. Possible values are:

=over

=item * I<auto> - The recipe is automatically unlocked upon reaching the
min_rating in an associated discipline.

=item * I<discover> - The recipe is unlocked through the Discovery screen.

=item * I<item> - The recipe is unlocked by using a "recipe sheet" consumable
item.

=back

=item time_to_craft_ms

The base time, in milliseconds, that the recipe takes to complete. When crafting
multiples of a recipe at once, this time gradually reduces to about 1/3 of its
original value.

=head3 Type/Discipline matrix

This matrix shows all the possible recipe types and which disciplines have
access to those types. Not all disciplines can craft every recipe with that
type, however.

                      Arm Art Chf Hnt Jwl Lth Tlr Wep
                      --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---
 Component             x   x   x   x   x   x   x   x
 Consumable            x   x   x   x   x   x   x   x
 Refinement            x   x   x   x   x   x   x   x
 UpgradeComponent      x   x   x   x   x   x   x   x
 Bag                   x                   x   x
 Boots                 x                   x   x
 Bulk                  x                   x   x
 Coat                  x                   x   x
 Gloves                x                   x   x
 Helm                  x                   x   x
 Insignia              x                   x   x
 Leggings              x                   x   x
 Shoulders             x                   x   x
 Inscription               x       x               x
 Focus                     x
 Potion                    x
 Scepter                   x
 Staff                     x
 Trident                   x
 Dessert                       x
 Dye                           x
 Feast                         x
 IngredientCooking             x
 Meal                          x
 Seasoning                     x
 Snack                         x
 Soup                          x
 LongBow                           x
 Pistol                            x
 Rifle                             x
 ShortBow                          x
 Speargun                          x
 Torch                             x
 Warhorn                           x
 Amulet                                x
 Earring                               x
 Ring                                  x
 Axe                                               x
 Dagger                                            x
 Greatsword                                        x
 Hammer                                            x
 Harpoon                                           x
 Mace                                              x
 Shield                                            x
 Sword                                             x

=back

=cut
