=pod

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This subclass of GuildWars2::API::Objects defines the cartographic objects used
to represent the world of Tyria.

Access to this data is provided through the C<$api->get_maps()> method, which
returns a hash of L<GuildWars2::API::Objects::Region|/Region> objects, keyed on region_id.

Coordinates are given as units on a "continent" grid of [0, 0] to
[32768, 32768].


=head1 CLASSES

=head2 Region

Regions are the top-level cartographic element in Guild Wars 2, thus the Region
class is the top-level cartographic object in GuildWars2::API.  A region can
contain multiple maps.

=head3 Attributes

=over

=item region_name

The region's name.

=item label_coord

An array containing the (x, y) coordinates for positioning the region label.

=item maps

A hash consisting of L<GuildWars2::API::Objects::Map|/Map> objects, keyed on map_id,
representing all of the Maps in the Region.

=back


=head2 Map

The Map class represents a map definition in Guild Wars 2.

=head3 Attributes

=over

=item map_name

The map's name.

=item min_level
=item max_level

The minimum and maximum levels allowed/recommended for the map.

=item default_floor

The default floor for the map.

=item continent_rect

An array of two (x, y) coordinates. These points are the southwest and northeast
corners of the bounding box for the map.

=item map_rect

Same as C<continent_rect>, but given in map coordinates, which are used by the
events API for defining event locations.

=item points_of_interest

An array of L<GuildWars2::API::Objects::PoI|/PoI> objects.

=item tasks

An array of L<GuildWars2::API::Objects::Task|/Task> objects.

=item skill_challenges

An array of L<GuildWars2::API::Objects::Challenge|/Challenge> objects.

=item sectors

An array of L<GuildWars2::API::Objects::Sector|/Sector> objects.

=back


=head2 PoI

The PoI class represents a point of interest in Guild Wars 2. Note that the
API definition of "point of interest" is broader than the in-game definition;
the API includes points of interest, waypoints, vistas, and certain other points
under this classification.

This class includes the Linkable role for generating game links, defined in
Linkable.pm.

=head3 Attributes

=over

=item poi_id

The internal ID of the point.

=item poi_name

The point's name.

=item poi_type

The point's type:

 landmark
 unlock
 vista
 waypoint

=item floor

The floor that the point is located on.

=item coord

An array of (x, y) coordinates defining the point's location.

=back


=head2 Task

The Task class represents a task, also known as a Renown Heart or Renown Region.

=head3 Attributes

=over

=item task_id

The internal ID of the task.

=item objective

The name of the task.

=item level

The recommended level for completing the task.

=item coord

An array of (x, y) coordinates defining the task's location.

=back


=head2 Challenge

The Challenge class represents a skill challenge.

=head3 Attributes

=over

=item coord

An array of (x, y) coordinates defining the challenge's location.

=back


=head2 Sector

The Sector class represents a sector, also known as an area. Sectors are the
lowest-level cartographic elements in Guild Wars 2.

=head3 Attributes

=over

=item sector_id

The internal ID of the sector.

=item name

The name of the sector.

=item level

The effective level of the sector.

=item coord

An array of (x, y) coordinates defining the sector's centroid.

=back

=cut
